all right any chef buck here and today
we're going to bake up some falafel
what's a falafel falafel is just
chickpea you it's just garbanzo beans
it's a fried fritter a garbanzo bean but
we're not making a fritter because we're
not frying and we're baking them because
it's healthier but that's not really why
we're doing it we're doing it because
easier you know it's less of a pain
that's why I'm using the can because
it's less of a pain I'm going to drain
it and I'm gonna rinse it one can of
garbanzo beans and then most everything
is going to go in a food processor my
hands are not freakishly large it's just
the angle of the camera I'm putting the
half of the beans in there and then I'm
going to go ahead and throw some onion
and three cloves of garlic but you know
just put two if you're not a garlic
lover like I am because that's very
garlicky if you put three and then I'm
going to put in my spices some coriander
some cumin some cayenne pepper a little
baking powder some salt the cayenne
pepper is optional you know if you're
not interested in the heat you know
don't use it but if you can't stand the
heat get out of the kitchen as they say
some cilantro and parsley fresh quarter
cup each but you don't have to use both
of them if you just want to use a half a
cup of cilantro
or half a cup of parsley that's going to
be fun too a little bit of olive oil and
then I'm going to top it with the rest
of the beans from the can you know this
is still just the same can I just like
to put them on top so my spices and
stuff don't stick to the top of the
processor because oh I got this little
rinky-dink one that I make hummus in and
I'm not going to process it for very
long you know just a quick little grind
grind they beat the Machine and say bad
machine so the machine knows it's been
bad and then I'm going to look at it see
I'm looking at right now that's not
enough so I'm going to push it down and
I'm going to pulse it you know one more
time just for a second because you don't
want to over process this stuff you know
you're not going to puree it
you're not going to liquefy it you know
you wanted to have a lot of texture and
you know the beans are soft already
because they come out of a can you know
they're going to stick together just
fine plus we're going to throw a little
breadcrumb in there anyway
just a itsy-bitsy teeny-weeny bit so go
ahead and get your mixture process throw
it in a bowl and then we'll go ahead and
put a tablespoon of bread crumbs or
flour and then you know we're ready what
we're almost ready to put on the sheet
we're going to put in some lemon juice
too you know what you don't have to do
sometimes I put in
sometimes I don't it's not going to be
the end of the world either which way in
this case though it kind of I think
liquefied it a little bit more so that
it wasn't as dry so you know just kind
of gauge that and whether or not you got
a lemon now I'm going to use a
tablespoon and I'm going to mount it on
there each one of these is going to be
about two tablespoons because it's a
heaping tablespoon that I'm using to
measure this I'm going to get 10 out of
this kin which I usually get you know if
you want you can just double up the size
and make five but I make the I like to
make a little rinky-dink ones that will
go on a piece of pita bread for a
falafel sandwich you know so they're
yharnam slide it in the fridge you know
letting it sit for a little while
because they'll bake up better they
won't fall apart they're not gonna fall
apart anyway so you don't have to do
that part before you're ready to cook
them go ahead and drizzle a brush some
olive oil on there you know I don't have
a brush because we just moved into this
place and my brushes in Florida and I
haven't bought a brush yet so I'm doing
this caveman style with my hands you
know this is how me and appalls used to
put the olive oil under falafels new
years ago sliding it into an oven at 400
degrees for 20 minutes and then I'm
pulling it out and then I'm doing the
flip-flop you know just turning them
over they're not done yet and this is
another reason you want them to be like
these overinflated poker chip just gets
because they'll get more surface on the
pan you'll be able to get a little more
color on you know they'll be able to
toast up a little bit better on the pan
but give them a flip boom back in the
oven at 400 degrees still for 10 more
minutes and then that'll be it
you got some baked falafel are they as
good as fried falafels no because
they're not fried but they are good and
they're easier to make you know they're
delicious you know I love these things
in a little pita sounds or on a plate
with some other stuff which is how I'm
going to eat them and look at this here
they crispy on the outside and watch
this here boom nice and steamy wholesome
goodness and freshness in there and
here's the important part watch right
here special effect finger look at that
it's still moist inside it's not a
dried-out desiccated husk of a falafel
it's a nice juicy tasty falafel just
like a fried falafel but not fried
serving it up with hummus you know
cucumber tomato blah blah
you know whatever you want you know put
in a pita sandwich you have if you
haven't had flops before super easy give
it a go let me know what you think
Bon Appetit thanks for watching I'm
going to go ahead and I'll put out put
this up to the homeless video because
you know that's uh that makes sense
alright